Being and Time: A Sample Philosophical Text

The question of Being has today been forgotten. Even though in our time we deem it progressive to give our approval to 'metaphysics' again, it is held that we have been exempted from the exertions of a renewed regraspingof the question about Being. Yet the question we are touching upon is not just any question. It is one which provided a stimulus for the researches of Plato and Aristotle, only to subside from then on as a theme for actual investigation.

Dasein is an entity which does not just occur among other entities. Rather it is ontically distinguished by the fact that, in its very Being, that Being is an issue for it. But in that case, this is a constitutive state of Dasein's Being, and this implies that Dasein, in its Being, has a relationship towards that Being—a relationship which itself is one of Being. And this means further that there is some way in which Dasein understands itself in its Being, and that to some degree it does so explicitly.

The question of the meaning of Being must be formulated. If it is a fundamental question, or indeed the fundamental question, it requires adequate conceptualization. In this field of inquiry, where we are dealing with the Being of entities, the traditional definition of truth—adequatio rei et intellectus—can no longer be sustained. The meaning of Being can never be contrasted with entities, or with Being as the 'ground' which gives entities support.

Temporality reveals itself as the meaning of authentic care. The existential-ontological constitution of Dasein's totality is grounded in temporality. We must show that and how the central problematic of all ontology is rooted in the phenomenon of time, if rightly seen and rightly explained. Entities are grasped in their Being as 'presence'; this means that they are understood with regard to a definite mode of time—the 'Present'.

The existential analytic of Dasein comes before any psychology or anthropology, and certainly before any biology. While these other investigations are also directed upon entities, they are entities which possess the character of Dasein themselves; but they do not necessarily have Dasein's Being as their thematic object.

Care is defined formally-existentially as Being-ahead-of-itself-already-in-(a world) as Being-alongside entities encountered (within-the-world). This formula does not express a circular definition. It is a phenomenological interpretation wherein the structural totality of an item of equipment is allowed to be seen. The phenomenon of care is ontologically 'prior' to every factical 'attitude' and 'situation' of Dasein.

Anxiety individualizes Dasein and thus discloses it as 'solus ipse'. This existential 'solipsism', however, is so far from the displacement of putting an isolated subject-Thing into the innocuous emptiness of a worldless occurring, that in an extreme sense what it does is precisely to bring Dasein face to face with its world as world, and thus bring it face to face with itself as Being-in-the-world.

Thrownness is revealed in the state-of-mind of anxiety. Understanding is essentially the projection of Dasein upon its potentiality-for-Being. Falling reveals an essential ontological structure of Dasein itself. The totality of these structures constitutes the phenomenon of care.
